Creating the "choose your own example(s)" episode (#102)
carpentries-incubator/docker-introduction: _episodes/07-docker-image-examples.md

---
title: "Examples of Using Container Images in Practice"
teaching: 20
exercises: 0
questions:
- "How can I use Docker for my own work?"
objectives:
- "Use existing container images and Docker in a research project."
keypoints:
- "There are many ways you might use Docker and existing container images in your research project."
---

Now that we have learned the basics of working with docker images and containers,
let's apply what we learned to an example workflow.

You may choose one or more of the following examples to practice using containers.

## Jekyll Website Example

In this [Jekyll Website example](../_extras/e02-jekyll-lesson-example), you can practice

> rendering this lesson website locally using Docker and a Jekyll a container image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
rendering this lesson website on your computer using Jekyll in a Docker container.
```

> This example helps avoid a complicated software install by using a container image.

Reviewer: I'd like to make this more clear and direct: Rendering the website in a container avoids a complicated software installation; instead of installing Jekyll and all the other tools needed to create the final website, all the work can be done in the container.

Author: ```suggestion
Rendering the website in a container avoids a complicated software installation; instead of installing Jekyll and all the other tools needed to create the final website, all the work can be done in the container.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Perhaps could add the benefit of clean-up? (I don't feel strongly about this so feel free to jettison the suggestion!)
```suggestion
Also, when you no longer need to render the website, you can easily and cleanly remove the software from your computer.
```

Author: ```suggestion
Additionally, when you no longer need to render the website, you can easily and cleanly remove the software from your computer.
```

## GitHub Actions Example

In this [GitHub Actions example](../_extras/e01-github-actions), you can learn more about

> continuous integration in the clound and how you can use container images with GitHub to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
continuous integration in the cloud and how you can use container images with GitHub to
```

> automate some of your workflow.

Reviewer: automate repetitive tasks like testing code or deploying websites.

Author: ```suggestion
automate repetitive tasks like testing code or deploying websites.
```

> automate repetitive tasks like testing code or deploying websites.

Reviewer 2: Thought crosses my mind: will learners be thrown by us giving the Jekyll example above, and then mentioning deploying websites in the GitHub Actions example? Could possibly explicitly connect this, by noting that GitHub Actions could itself do the deployment mentioned in the Jekyll example, but ... that feels confusing...

Reviewer: I had the same thought. Maybe make this into an issue that we can revisit later?

Author: I've been thinking of them as separate examples that instructors or learners could pick and choose from.  While these two examples could certainly be combined, I'm hoping for more examples that will be more unrelated.  So I hesitate to add connections on this page.  However, maybe we could add a call out at the bottom of the gh-actions one or both that days you could combine them? What do you think @dme26

Author: oh and @ChristinaLK? I didn't see your comment when I made mine for some reason.

Reviewer: I agree that they are separate and should be thought of as separately, but there are some parallels.

Reviewer: I'd leave it as is for now.

<!--- Placeholder for 
## Geospatial Example

Ask @mkuzak to make a PR to add extra for <https://github.com/escience-academy/docker-gdal-demo>

-->

Do you have another example of using Docker in a workflow related to your field?  Please [open a lesson issue] or [submit a pull request] to add it to this episode and the extras section of the lesson.

{% include links.md %}

{% comment %}
<!--  LocalWords:  keypoints _episodes_rmd CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md aio.md
 -->
<!--  LocalWords:  CONTRIBUTING.md LICENSE.md index.md reference.md
 -->
<!--  LocalWords:  README.md setup.md _config.yml webserver srv
 -->
<!--  LocalWords:  jekyll x86_64-linux-musl favicons github.io
 -->
<!--  LocalWords:  links.md _episodes_rmd _config.yml endcomment
 -->
{% endcomment %}

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[open a lesson issue]: https://github.com/carpentries-incubator/docker-introduction/issues
```

Author: This is already in the `links.md` file.
